# Worksheet 4

## Part 1
***A small 25 W light bulb has an efficiency of 20%. How many photons are approximately emitted per second?
Assume in the calculations that we only use average photons of wavelength 500 nm.***

25W energy of the entire lightbulb. Efficiency is 20% so 20% of 25W is converted to light. So, 5W is converted to light.

Energy of a photon is given by:


E = hc/λ


therefore a single photon has energy of:


E = 6.626 * 10^-34 * 2.9979 * 10^8 / 500 * 10^-9 = 3.97 * 10^-30 W


So, number of photons emitted per second is:


5 / 3.97 * 10^-30 = 1.26 * 10^28 photons


## Part 2

***A light bulb (2.4 V and 0.7 A), which is approximately sphere-shaped with a diameter of 1 cm, emits light equally in all directions. Find the following entities (ideal conditions assumed)***
- Radiant flux
- Radiant intensity
- Radiant exitance
- Emitted energy in 5 minutes
***Use W for Watt, J for Joule, m for meter, s for second and sr for steradian.***


**Radiant flux** is equivalent to power, so it is 2.4V * 0.7A = 1.68W

**Radiant intensity** - to find it, first we need to calculate the area of the sphere (light bulb). in this case:


A = 4 * π * r^2 = 4 * π * (0.01/2)^2 = 3.14 * 10^-4 m^2


calculating solid angle yields results in steradians:


Ω = A / r^2 = 3.14 * 10^-4 / (0.01/2)^2 = 12.56 sr


Radiant intensity is then:


I = P / Ω = 1.68 / 12.56 = 0.134 W/sr


**Radiant exitance** is the total power emitted per unit area. In this case, it is:


M = P / A = 1.68 / 3.14 * 10^-4 = 5.35 * 10^3 W/m^2


**Emitted energy in 5 minutes** is:


E = P * t = 1.68W * 5min * 60s = 504 J


## Part 3

***The light bulb from above is observed by an eye, which has an opening of the pupil of 6 mm and a distance
of 1 m from the light bulb. Find the irradiance received in the eye.***

Light that hits the opening of the pupil is a circle with diameter of 6mm. The area of the circle is:


A = π * r^2 = π * (0.006/2)^2 = 2.83 * 10^-5 m^2 


Considering the distance of 1m, the solid angle is:


Ω = A / distance^2 = 2.83 * 10^-5 / 1^2 = 2.83 * 10^-5 sr


Given this, we can calculate intensity over the solid angle (considering the entire sphere):


I = P / Ω = 1.68 / 4π = 1.68 / 12.56 = 0.134 W/sr


Irradiance at the eye given the intensity,distance and the area of the eye is:


E = I / (distance^2) = 0.134 / 1 = 0.134 W/m^2


## Part 4

***A 200 W spherically shaped light bulb (20% efficiency) emits red light of wavelength 650 nm equally in all
directions. The light bulb is placed 2 m above a table. Calculate the irradiance at the table.
Photometric quantities can be calculated from radiometric ones based on the equation
Photometric= Radiometric· 685· V(λ)
in which V(λ) is the luminous efficiency curve.
At 650 nm, the luminous efficiency curve has a value of 0.1. Calculate the illuminance.***


First, we need to calculate the radiant flux of the light bulb. Efficiency is 20%, so 20% of 200W is converted to light:


P = 200 * 0.2 = 40W


Considering the light is emitted equally in all directions over a sphere, the radiant intensity is:


I = P / 4π = 40 / 4π = 3.18 W/sr


considering that the table is 2m away right below the light bulb (cosθ = 1), the irradiance at the table is:


E = I / (distance^2) = 3.18 / 4 = 0.795 W/m^2


to calculate Photometric quantities, we use the formula given above:


E = 0.795 * 685 * 0.1 = 54.5 lx


## Part 5

***In a simple arrangement the luminous intensity of an unknown light source is determined from a known
light source. The light sources are placed 1 m from each other and illuminate a double sided screen placed
between the light sources. The screen is moved until both sides are equally illuminated as observed by a
photometer. At the position of match, the screen is 35 cm from the known source with luminous intensity
Is = 40 lm/sr = 40 cd and 65 cm from the unknown light source. What is the luminous intensity Ix of the
unknown source?***

Given that the screen is equally illuminated by both sources, we assume that the illuminance is the same on both sides of the screen. The illuminance is given by:

E = P * cosθ / (4π * distance^2)

E1 = E2

here we assume the cosθ is 1, the 4π is cancelled out, the relation can be simplified to:

Is / distance1^2 = Ix / distance2^2

Ix = Is * distance2^2 / distance1^2 = 40 * (0.65)^2 / (0.35)^2 = 137.96 cd

## Part 6

***The radiance Lfrom a diffuse light source (emitter) of 10 x 10 cm is 5000 W/(sr m2). Calculate the radiosity
(radiant exitance). How much energy is emitted from the light source?***

In this case, the radiosity is:

B = L * π = 5000 * π = 15700 W/m^2

The energy emitted from the light source is:

E = B * A = 15700 * 0.1 * 0.1 = 157 J

## Part 7

***The radiance L = 6000 cos θ W/(m2 sr) for a non-diffuse emitter of area 10 by 10 cm. Find the radiant
exitance. Also, find the power of the entire light source.***

Power can be calculated as follows:


$$ P = L \int_{A} dA_0 \int_{0}^{2\pi} d\phi \int_{0}^{\pi/2} cos(\theta) sin(\theta) d\theta $$

Given the L, this becomes:

$$ P = 6000 \int_{A} dA_0 \int_{0}^{2\pi} d\phi \int_{0}^{\pi/2} cos^2(\theta) sin(\theta) d\theta $$

which can be simplified to:

$$ 
P = 6000 \cdot 2\pi \cdot \frac{1}{3} \cdot A = 4000\pi * A \, 
 $$

this results in:

$$ P = 4000\pi * 0.1 * 0.1 = 12.57 W $$

The radiant exitance is:

M = P / A = 12.57 / 0.1 * 0.1 = 1257 W/m^2
